README.md, before:

## Custom Ocean-y Dark Theme for Jupyter Notebooks
<img width="1008" alt="Screenshot 2021-03-10 at 8 17 27 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17111474/110647211-a4593f80-81dd-11eb-817a-0f1b42c0ee61.png">


<img width="1008" alt="Screenshot 2021-03-10 at 8 16 18 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17111474/110647013-7bd14580-81dd-11eb-990f-7c1bef1c6331.png">

<img width="1008" alt="Screenshot 2021-03-10 at 8 16 46 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17111474/110647093-8be92500-81dd-11eb-9eb5-d449781502d4.png">


## Installation

#### Custom CSS Theme
First, we need to copy `custom.css` to `~/.jupyter/custom/custom.css`
```bash
cd ~/.jupyter
mkdir custom  # may already exist
cd .jupyter/custom
rm custom.css
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rsomani95/jupyter-custom-theme/master/custom.css
```

#### Matplotlib Settings
Next, we gotta setup or update an IPython file that runs on starting up _any_ jupyter notebook. The contents of this file update the default `matplotlib.rcParams` settings to match the theme defined in `custom.css`. Note that the default `dpi` is set to 150 which may be a touch higher than you'd want for big visualisations.

The snippet below assumes that you do _not_ have an existing `startup.ipy` file (this is the default state). This file runs arbitrary python code and any modules imported are available in the notebook.
```bash
cd ~/.ipython/profile_default/startup
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rsomani95/jupyter-custom-theme/master/startup.ipy

# If you already have a `startup.ipy` file, then you can copy paste the contents into it
```

## Inspiration / Sources
This repo is deeply inspired by:
* [JupyterThemes by Dunovank](https://github.com/dunovank/jupyter-themes)
* [Material Theme by Mattia Astorino](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Equinusocio.vsc-material-theme)
* [JetBrains Mono Font](https://github.com/JetBrains/JetBrainsMono)
* [IBM Plex Fonts](https://github.com/IBM/plex)

## Further Tweaking
I applied (most of) the material theme to a template generated by the `jupyterthemes` project. The main difference is that I have parametrised a **large** chunk of the UI settings into some 80+ CSS variables available at the top of the `custom.css` file for easy tweaking. Here's what that looks like:

<img width="1008" alt="Screenshot 2021-03-10 at 8 14 54 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17111474/110646823-49274d00-81dd-11eb-94dc-0a1913718217.png">

Commit message:

add instructions to directly invoke inside nb

README.md, after:

## Custom Ocean-y Dark Theme for Jupyter Notebooks
<img width="1008" alt="Screenshot 2021-03-10 at 8 17 27 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17111474/110647211-a4593f80-81dd-11eb-817a-0f1b42c0ee61.png">


<img width="1008" alt="Screenshot 2021-03-10 at 8 16 18 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17111474/110647013-7bd14580-81dd-11eb-990f-7c1bef1c6331.png">

<img width="1008" alt="Screenshot 2021-03-10 at 8 16 46 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17111474/110647093-8be92500-81dd-11eb-9eb5-d449781502d4.png">


## Installation

#### Custom CSS Theme
You can directly invoke the CSS inside a notebook like this:
```python
from IPython.core.display import HTML, display
from urllib.request import urlopen

CSS_URL = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rsomani95/jupyter-custom-theme/master/custom.css"
CSS = urlopen(CSS_URL)
CSS = CSS.read().decode('utf-8')
HTML_CSS = f"""
<style>
{CSS}
</style>
"""
HTML(HTML_CSS)
```
You will need to run that every time you start a notebook, and the matplotlib theme will not be applied. See below for a more permanent installation

---

For a permanent installation, we first need to copy `custom.css` to `~/.jupyter/custom/custom.css`
```bash
cd ~/.jupyter
mkdir custom  # may already exist
cd .jupyter/custom
rm custom.css
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rsomani95/jupyter-custom-theme/master/custom.css
```

#### Matplotlib Settings
Next, we gotta setup or update an IPython file that runs on starting up _any_ jupyter notebook. The contents of this file update the default `matplotlib.rcParams` settings to match the theme defined in `custom.css`. Note that the default `dpi` is set to 150 which may be a touch higher than you'd want for big visualisations.

The snippet below assumes that you do _not_ have an existing `startup.ipy` file (this is the default state). This file runs arbitrary python code and any modules imported are available in the notebook.
```bash
cd ~/.ipython/profile_default/startup
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rsomani95/jupyter-custom-theme/master/startup.ipy

# If you already have a `startup.ipy` file, then you can copy paste the contents into it
```

## Inspiration / Sources
This repo is deeply inspired by:
* [JupyterThemes by Dunovank](https://github.com/dunovank/jupyter-themes)
* [Material Theme by Mattia Astorino](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Equinusocio.vsc-material-theme)
* [JetBrains Mono Font](https://github.com/JetBrains/JetBrainsMono)
* [IBM Plex Fonts](https://github.com/IBM/plex)

## Further Tweaking
I applied (most of) the material theme to a template generated by the `jupyterthemes` project. The main difference is that I have parametrised a **large** chunk of the UI settings into some 80+ CSS variables available at the top of the `custom.css` file for easy tweaking. Here's what that looks like:

<img width="1008" alt="Screenshot 2021-03-10 at 8 14 54 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17111474/110646823-49274d00-81dd-11eb-94dc-0a1913718217.png">
